>> Steve Kinney: So once we have our
tokens and the IDs related to those
tokens, we get into this whole
Transformer thing, right?
And like I said, in the pattern
that we've been seeing so far,
we'll do the conceptual stuff and
then we'll pull it into a notebook and
we'll kind of see and play around with it
and see also new and fun ways to break
stuff that I didn't think about until
I had a bunch of friends in a room
challenging other ways to think about
that will now live rent free in my head.
So there will be some conceptual stuff and
then we will see it in practice,
my sense was kinda doing
the two passes on.
It was the right choice.
That's stock photography, not AI art.
I would like the record to show.
But there is everyone's requisite
picture of a Transformer.
So now we can all stop thinking about
Decepticons and Autobots and move on.
So Transformer is effectively
the popular approach
that has kind of kicked
off a lot of what we see
these days, a 2017 paper, apparently.
Attention is all you need
that came out of Google and
it is the one powering all
these text generative models,
not the extractive ones like
OpenAI's GPT and Meta's Llama and
Google's Gemini and Anthropics Claude,
so on and so forth, right?
It's funny because I think we think
about originally OpenAI and GPT,
even though the paper came
out of Google originally.
That's just how stuff works.
And they are good at understanding
these long range dependencies within
sentences, right?
Again, not just thinking about
the word before and after it.
Because as we know as people who speak
English, a lot of times something earlier
in the sentence means something
later in the sentence.
But as we saw before, what these
models do is they don't look forward,
they're only looking backwards.
They're only looking at
the previous tokens to guess
what the next token should be.
That is Core versus something like bert,
which is looking both ways.
As we saw earlier with those fill
masks and all of those fun things.
The one that is currently in the popular
imagination is only looking backwards.
And we can actually see that
in a graph in a little bit.
And so the whole idea is there
are three key components.
We've got this idea of an embedding,
a transformer block and
the output probabilities.
The output probabilities we've
kind of already talked about,
there'll be a slide for it.
But are the basically like, hey, what
do we think the next token is going to
be what is most likely the next
token given the previous one.
And the embeddings are kind
of what we talked about,
where we turn it into those vectors.
So we kinda know the beginning,
we kinda know the end.
The only kind of murky part
is this middle in the center.
So again, embedding is breaking the words
apart and turning into numbers.
As we kind of saw in that information,
there's some
positional information as well in order
to capture the order of the words.
And so we've got the semantic meeting and
the positional information.
So then we get this attention mechanism,
right?
And it's basically allowing any
given token to communicate or
at least be aware of.
How about that of the other tokens
to capture that contextual meaning.
Again, the difference between
the banks of the old Raritan versus
let's go rob some banks tomorrow, right?
Like the other words in the sentence
add a lot of context to what
the word banks means in
that given sentence, right?
And so what happens is we can kind of
like look at each one of those and
begin to map together
based on the other words.
Kind of almost move the meaning, right?
Like in a lot of these vector databases,
it's like each one of those tokens,
numbers is in relation
to all the rest of them.
And we kind of use when we say
a multi dimensional space.
Good luck picturing that.
But it is the ability to kinda like, where
is it in relation to the other words?
Did they say thieves?
Okay, I think I know
the context of that word now.
Yes, I get it.
We'll see some stuff in a second.
All right,
I'm gonna take another run at that.
As you can tell even from the slides,
I was like, that's gonna be confusing.
So self attention is
like a group discussion.
Each token can look at or
talk to every other token to figure
out what version of itself it means.
And then there's a time of quiet,
individual thinking time, right?
After all the tokens have shared
all their information and
played their weird guessing game with
each other about what they all mean.
Each one can kind of look at itself and
adjust its meaning based on
what it already knows, right?
So it's like, okay, I'm in a sentence.
The other words in this
sentence are burglar,
hamburglar, [LAUGH] like whatever.
I think I know which version of
Rob we're talking about again.
The banks of the Hudson river
versus the banks that make deposit,
it'll look at basically the meaning and
the relationships of those other words to
figure out its own which
variation of itself it might be.
Like I said before,
that output is where it comes out.
You need to know this on a basis of
like a conceptual understanding.
Like I said before,
there's not necessarily a quiz, right?
But knowing that they look
at the tokens around them,
they get a sense of what those words
mean to figure out where in that
space their meaning of which version cuz
that sentiment analysis broke, right?
The core piece is like, how do you not be
like the sentiment analysis that we saw in
the very beginning, right?
You take into consideration the other
words around you and what they might mean.
We even saw that when we looked
at the text generation early on,
where we saw that if you started out
in a very formal academic string,
you ended up with a bunch of other
words that were formal, academic.
In fact, we even saw, I think there
was one text generation example,
which was it just said a long time ago in
a galaxy far away or something like that.
And that was enough to put those words,
which could mean a lot of different things
when you only have like your brain jumped
to the same thing my brain did, right?
But the computer, like it was like
emperor with a capital E, mm-hm.
Yeah, right, cuz again, like it looks at
those words in every individual token,
looks at the relationship
of the other token.
And what words kind of come around that
and begin to like shift themselves into
position to do effectively the same
thing that our brains do, right?
And that context is the important part.
Banks can look at river, can look
at Hudson to know that means river,
bank, bank, can look at robbed and
thieves to see that it probably
means the Minneapolis Savings Bank.
I don't know if that's a real bank,
but whatever.
And that context is where it
could begin to get the sense and
move itself into the right position for
the related context.
And that's what separates it from those
very simple sentiment analysis and
all those other things.
So yeah, for the bank consensus, one,
that vector gets shifted towards
the financial meaning for the one, and
the second one, it gets shifted
towards the river edge meaning, right?
And like we start to get a sense of
the meaning of the entire phrase.
Cause each word is kind of shifting
itself in that second introspection time,
right towards different meanings.
Now all of a sudden we have a better sense
of what the whole thing means, right,
through a lot of like math,
and that's why your GPU and
your fans start spinning on your
computer and stuff like that.
It is obviously a lot more
complicated than that, but
conceptually that's what we're going for
here.
Like I said before, then we try to guess
based on now we have some sense of
the meaning, not just the words.
We have some sense of the meaning that
informs what the next word is going to be.
And then ideally we should be able to
guess it as we have all seen, sometimes.